ROADMAP.md, before:

# Deciduous Roadmap

> Features and improvements planned for deciduous based on real-world usage.

---

## Known Bugs / Critical Fixes

### Database Reset/Corruption
- **Bug:** Database gets reset when used across multiple apps/sessions
- **Symptom:** `deciduous link` fails with `FOREIGN KEY constraint failed` because referenced nodes no longer exist
- **Impact:** Complete loss of decision history
- **Fix needed:**
  - Investigate why `.deciduous/deciduous.db` gets wiped
  - Add database integrity checks on startup
  - Auto-backup before operations
  - Better error messages when graph state is inconsistent

### Link Command Fails Silently on Missing Nodes
- Should warn clearly if source or target node doesn't exist
- Currently fails with cryptic FOREIGN KEY error

---

## Git Integration

### Branch-Based Decision Groups
- Associate decision nodes with git branches
- Automatically group work/decisions by branch for cleaner viewing
- Enable better PR storytelling by filtering graph to branch-relevant nodes
- `deciduous branch link <branch-name>` to tag current nodes with branch context
- PR writeups auto-filter to show only decisions from that branch's work

### Git Log as Queryable Data
- Store git log entries as a data structure alongside decision nodes
- Cross-reference commits with decisions/actions
- Query: "what decisions led to commit X?"
- Query: "what commits resulted from decision Y?"
- Interleave git history with decision history for complete audit trail

---

## Context & Memory

### Persistent Context Recovery
- Make `/context` (or `context.md` generation) run automatically after memory compaction
- Ensure decision graph context is ALWAYS available, not just on-demand
- Hook into Claude Code's compaction events to auto-refresh context
- Never lose thread of work even across long sessions

### File & Line Queries
- Query decisions related to specific files: `deciduous query --file src/lib.rs`
- Query decisions related to line ranges: `deciduous query --file src/lib.rs --lines 10-50`
- Link decisions to code locations, not just concepts
- "Why does this code exist?" answerable from the graph

---

## Configuration & Setup

### CLAUDE.md Additive Mode
- Don't overwrite existing CLAUDE.md - append/merge deciduous instructions
- Detect existing content and add deciduous section if missing
- Preserve user's custom instructions while ensuring deciduous workflow is included
- `deciduous init --additive` flag (or make it default)

### Rules File Merging
- Same additive behavior for `.claude/settings.json` rules
- Check if rule names already exist before adding
- Merge rather than replace to preserve user customizations
- Warn if conflicts detected, let user resolve

---

## Model Comparison & Benchmarking

### Multi-Model Decision Runs
- Record which model made each decision (already have model info?)
- Re-run same prompts/goals with different models
- Compare decision paths: "How did Opus approach this vs Sonnet?"
- Benchmark metrics:
  - Decision count (more granular vs fewer big jumps)
  - Confidence distributions
  - Time to completion
  - Token usage
- Visualize decision trees side-by-side

### Reproducible Scenarios
- Save a "scenario" (starting state + goal) as replayable
- Run scenario against multiple models
- Compare outcomes and paths taken
- Useful for evaluating model upgrades or fine-tuning

---

## Visualization & UX

### Enhanced Graph Viewer
- Filter by branch/group
- Filter by date range
- Filter by node type
- Search within node titles/descriptions
- Zoom to specific subgraphs
- Timeline view (decisions over time)

### PR Integration
- GitHub Action to auto-generate decision graph for PRs
- Embed graph visualization in PR description
- Link nodes to specific commits/files changed

---

## CLI Improvements

### Query Language
```bash
# Find decisions about a topic
deciduous query "WASM"

# Find by type and confidence
deciduous query --type decision --confidence ">80"

# Find by file
deciduous query --file "src/lib.rs"

# Find by date
deciduous query --since "2025-12-01"
```

### Better Sync
- Auto-sync on every add/link (optional)
- Sync to multiple destinations (local JSON, remote, etc.)
- Real-time sync for live graph viewing during sessions

---

## Future Ideas (Brainstorm)

- [ ] Team collaboration - multiple contributors to same graph
- [ ] Decision templates - common patterns (feature, bugfix, refactor)
- [ ] Integration with issue trackers (link nodes to GitHub issues)
- [ ] Decision "replay" - step through historical decisions
- [ ] AI-generated summaries of decision paths
- [ ] Export to other formats (Mermaid, PlantUML, etc.)
- [ ] Slack/Discord notifications for key decisions
- [ ] Decision metrics dashboard

---

## Priority Order (Suggested)

1. **Branch-based groups** - Immediate value for PR workflow
2. **Context persistence** - Critical for long sessions
3. **CLAUDE.md additive mode** - Better onboarding experience
4. **File/line queries** - Connect decisions to code
5. **Git log integration** - Complete audit trail
6. **Multi-model comparison** - Evaluation & benchmarking

---

*This roadmap is itself tracked in deciduous. Meta.*

Commit message:

docs: update bug report with root cause - relative CWD path issue

ROADMAP.md, after:

# Deciduous Roadmap

> Features and improvements planned for deciduous based on real-world usage.

---

## Known Bugs / Critical Fixes

### Database Path Uses Relative CWD (CRITICAL)
- **Bug:** `get_db_path()` in `db.rs` uses relative path `.deciduous/deciduous.db` based on current working directory
- **Root cause:** When running `deciduous` from a different directory, it looks for/creates DB in THAT directory, not the original project
- **Symptom:** `deciduous link` fails with `FOREIGN KEY constraint failed` because you're accidentally using a different (empty) database
- **Impact:** Appears like data loss but data is actually still in original project's `.deciduous/` folder
- **Fix needed:**
  - **Option 1 (Best):** Git-aware path resolution - walk up directories to find `.deciduous/` folder (like git finds `.git/`)
  - **Option 2:** Store project root in a config file or use `DECIDUOUS_DB_PATH` env var
  - **Option 3:** Warn loudly when no existing DB found in current directory, prompt to run `deciduous init`
  - Add `deciduous which` command to show which DB file is being used
- **Location:** `src/db.rs:14` - `fn get_db_path()`

### Link Command Fails Silently on Missing Nodes
- Should warn clearly if source or target node doesn't exist
- Currently fails with cryptic FOREIGN KEY error

---

## Git Integration

### Branch-Based Decision Groups
- Associate decision nodes with git branches
- Automatically group work/decisions by branch for cleaner viewing
- Enable better PR storytelling by filtering graph to branch-relevant nodes
- `deciduous branch link <branch-name>` to tag current nodes with branch context
- PR writeups auto-filter to show only decisions from that branch's work

### Git Log as Queryable Data
- Store git log entries as a data structure alongside decision nodes
- Cross-reference commits with decisions/actions
- Query: "what decisions led to commit X?"
- Query: "what commits resulted from decision Y?"
- Interleave git history with decision history for complete audit trail

---

## Context & Memory

### Persistent Context Recovery
- Make `/context` (or `context.md` generation) run automatically after memory compaction
- Ensure decision graph context is ALWAYS available, not just on-demand
- Hook into Claude Code's compaction events to auto-refresh context
- Never lose thread of work even across long sessions

### File & Line Queries
- Query decisions related to specific files: `deciduous query --file src/lib.rs`
- Query decisions related to line ranges: `deciduous query --file src/lib.rs --lines 10-50`
- Link decisions to code locations, not just concepts
- "Why does this code exist?" answerable from the graph

---

## Configuration & Setup

### CLAUDE.md Additive Mode
- Don't overwrite existing CLAUDE.md - append/merge deciduous instructions
- Detect existing content and add deciduous section if missing
- Preserve user's custom instructions while ensuring deciduous workflow is included
- `deciduous init --additive` flag (or make it default)

### Rules File Merging
- Same additive behavior for `.claude/settings.json` rules
- Check if rule names already exist before adding
- Merge rather than replace to preserve user customizations
- Warn if conflicts detected, let user resolve

---

## Model Comparison & Benchmarking

### Multi-Model Decision Runs
- Record which model made each decision (already have model info?)
- Re-run same prompts/goals with different models
- Compare decision paths: "How did Opus approach this vs Sonnet?"
- Benchmark metrics:
  - Decision count (more granular vs fewer big jumps)
  - Confidence distributions
  - Time to completion
  - Token usage
- Visualize decision trees side-by-side

### Reproducible Scenarios
- Save a "scenario" (starting state + goal) as replayable
- Run scenario against multiple models
- Compare outcomes and paths taken
- Useful for evaluating model upgrades or fine-tuning

---

## Visualization & UX

### Enhanced Graph Viewer
- Filter by branch/group
- Filter by date range
- Filter by node type
- Search within node titles/descriptions
- Zoom to specific subgraphs
- Timeline view (decisions over time)

### PR Integration
- GitHub Action to auto-generate decision graph for PRs
- Embed graph visualization in PR description
- Link nodes to specific commits/files changed

---

## CLI Improvements

### Query Language
```bash
# Find decisions about a topic
deciduous query "WASM"

# Find by type and confidence
deciduous query --type decision --confidence ">80"

# Find by file
deciduous query --file "src/lib.rs"

# Find by date
deciduous query --since "2025-12-01"
```

### Better Sync
- Auto-sync on every add/link (optional)
- Sync to multiple destinations (local JSON, remote, etc.)
- Real-time sync for live graph viewing during sessions

---

## Future Ideas (Brainstorm)

- [ ] Team collaboration - multiple contributors to same graph
- [ ] Decision templates - common patterns (feature, bugfix, refactor)
- [ ] Integration with issue trackers (link nodes to GitHub issues)
- [ ] Decision "replay" - step through historical decisions
- [ ] AI-generated summaries of decision paths
- [ ] Export to other formats (Mermaid, PlantUML, etc.)
- [ ] Slack/Discord notifications for key decisions
- [ ] Decision metrics dashboard

---

## Priority Order (Suggested)

1. **Branch-based groups** - Immediate value for PR workflow
2. **Context persistence** - Critical for long sessions
3. **CLAUDE.md additive mode** - Better onboarding experience
4. **File/line queries** - Connect decisions to code
5. **Git log integration** - Complete audit trail
6. **Multi-model comparison** - Evaluation & benchmarking

---

*This roadmap is itself tracked in deciduous. Meta.*
